trace causes a trace of the execution of command to be displayed. This option implies the noisily
option.
saving( filename-

, suboptions 
) creates a Stata data file (.dta file) consisting of (for each statistic
in exp list) a variable containing the replicates.
double specifies that the results for each replication be saved as doubles, meaning 8-byte reals.
By default, they are saved as floats, meaning 4-byte reals.
every(#) specifies that results be written to disk every #th replication. every() should be specified
only in conjunction with saving() when command takes a long time for each replication.
This will allow recovery of partial results should some other software crash your computer.
See [P] postfile.
replace specifies that filename be overwritten if it exists.
nolegend suppresses display of the table legend. The table legend identifies the rows of the table
with the expressions they represent.
verbose requests that the full table legend be displayed. By default, coefficients and standard errors
are not displayed.
seed(#) sets the random-number seed. Specifying this option is equivalent to typing the following
command before calling simulate:
. set seed #
Remarks and examples stata.com
For an introduction to Monte Carlo methods, see Cameron and Trivedi (2010, chap. 4). White (2010)
provides a command for analyzing results of simulation studies.
Example 1: Simulating basic summary statistics
We have a dataset containing means and variances of 100-observation samples from a lognormal
distribution (as a first step in evaluating, say, the coverage of a 95%, t-based confidence interval).
Then we perform the experiment 1,000 times.
The following command definition will generate 100 independent observations from a lognormal
distribution and compute the summary statistics for this sample.
program lnsim, rclass
version 17.0
drop _all
set obs 100
generate z = exp(rnormal())
summarize z
return scalar mean = r(mean)
return scalar Var = r(Var)
end
We can save 1,000 simulated means and variances from lnsim by typing
. set seed 1234
. simulate mean=r(mean) var=r(Var), reps(1000) nodots: lnsim
Command: lnsim
mean: r(mean)
var: r(Var)
